projects-talks/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Projects & Talks"
date: 2015-12-15
categories: []
tags: []
author: Benjamin Reittzammer
---

### Conference Talks

I've been at various conferences and meetups/usergroups over the last years and gave talks at some of them.
There's a [list of all my talks](/speaking/), with slides where it makes sense.

### Live Coding Meetup

Together with [Juan](https://twitter.com/rukano) I organize the [Live Coding Meetup
Frankfurt](https://www.meetup.com/de-DE/Live-Coding-Frankfurt/).

> We enjoy making music by writing code. And we want to enjoy writing code that makes music together with others.
>
> We are a diverse group of people with diverse sets of experiences in creating music and programming. And we want to
> share the joy and awesomeness of music with others, no matter your experience or background.
>
> This group is for you, if you enjoy music and want to know how to make it by writing code. You'll also enjoy the
> group, if you already have some (or even significant) experience with programming music or even performing at live
> coding events.
>
> Our events range from Beginner-level Live Coding Workshops, gatherings where we exchange ideas/tips/tricks, to
> spontaneous jams, where we make music together. Hopefully, one day, we'll also host some parties or live coding events
> and bring together even more people to enjoy music.

Come by, if you'd like to create music or visuals with code, and enjoy doing so jointly with others.


### Leader's Digest Archive

For some time in September/October 2015 I sent out (a whopping five times) a newsletter about leadership in tech. Stuff
basically.

I [archived the sent out newsletter issues](/leaders-digest-archive/) on this site and laid out the reasons for stopping
the newsletter again in a [short blog post](https://squeakyvessel.com/2015/12/15/farewell-leaders-digest/).

Commit message:

add email hint to contact page and add #humansconf to projects

projects-talks/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Projects & Talks"
date: 2015-12-15
categories: []
tags: []
author: Benjamin Reittzammer
---

### #humansconf

On 21-23 May 2020, I'm helping organise a new conference, that's focused on the humans in tech. It will take place at
the lovely [Seminarzentrum Rückersbach](https://www.natuerlich-tagen.de/) in Germany and will be run as an open space
conference. [Reach out](/contact/) if you're interested in helping out, sponsoring or just want to know more about
`#humansconf`.


### Conference Talks

I've been at various conferences and meetups/usergroups over the last years and gave talks at some of them.
There's a [list of all my talks](/speaking/), with slides where it makes sense.

### Live Coding Meetup

Together with [Juan](https://twitter.com/rukano) I organize the [Live Coding Meetup
Frankfurt](https://www.meetup.com/de-DE/Live-Coding-Frankfurt/).

> We enjoy making music by writing code. And we want to enjoy writing code that makes music together with others.
>
> We are a diverse group of people with diverse sets of experiences in creating music and programming. And we want to
> share the joy and awesomeness of music with others, no matter your experience or background.
>
> This group is for you, if you enjoy music and want to know how to make it by writing code. You'll also enjoy the
> group, if you already have some (or even significant) experience with programming music or even performing at live
> coding events.
>
> Our events range from Beginner-level Live Coding Workshops, gatherings where we exchange ideas/tips/tricks, to
> spontaneous jams, where we make music together. Hopefully, one day, we'll also host some parties or live coding events
> and bring together even more people to enjoy music.

Come by, if you'd like to create music or visuals with code, and enjoy doing so jointly with others.


### Leader's Digest Archive

For some time in September/October 2015 I sent out (a whopping five times) a newsletter about leadership in tech. Stuff
basically.

I [archived the sent out newsletter issues](/leaders-digest-archive/) on this site and laid out the reasons for stopping
the newsletter again in a [short blog post](https://squeakyvessel.com/2015/12/15/farewell-leaders-digest/).
